# Getting Started

This section will help you generate example files from the ground up. If you already have an existing project and would like to keep documentation inside the project, start from Step 3.

## Steps

- **Step 1:** Create a new directory and change into it.

  ```bash
  $ mkdir my-project && cd my-project
  ```

- **Step 2:** Create a `.env` file and add your credentials or use environment variables for database authorization. (You can also use parameters.)

  ```bash
  $ touch .env
  ```

  Add and edit the following data to the `.env` file you just created.

  ```.env
  DB_DATABASE=example
  DB_HOST=localhost
  DB_USER=user
  DB_PASSWORD=password
  ```

- **Step 3:** Install pg-generator locally or globally with your preferred package manager. If you install globally `pgen` command is available anywhere.

  ```bash
  $ npm install -g pg-generator`
  ```

- **Step 4:** Install a generator that contains templates. If you installed the pg-generator globally, install the generator globally too. For a start, you may install `pg-generator-example` to see how pg-generator works. `pg-generator-example` provides some example generators.

  ```bash
  $ npm install -g pg-generator-example
  ```

- **Step 5:** Run generator for your database.

  **CLI**

  ```bash
  $ pgen example --out-dir models --clear
  ```

  or add a sub-generator name after the semicolon ":" to execute a sub-generator

  ```bash
  $ pgen example:report --out-dir reports --clear
  ```

  **API**

  ```ts
  import { generate } from "pg-generator";
  await generate("example", { outDir: "models", clear: true });
  ```

  or add sub-generator as a second parameter to use one a sub-generator

  ```ts
  import { generate } from "pg-generator";
  await generate("example", "report", { outDir: "reports", clear: true });
  ```

  See pg-generator-example [docs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-generator-example) for the available sub-generators.

  If you have complex relationships (e.g. multiple relations between the same tables etc.) in your database, you may get a naming collision error. You can try `--relation-name-functions optimal` and `--relation-name-functions descriptive`. They produce longer relation names to prevent a collision.

::: tip
See available options using `pgen --help` or have a look at [generate](/nav.02.api/#generate) function documentation.
:::

## Examples

See [pg-generator-example](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-generator-example) plugin for an example. It provides examples of:

- Sub-generators for popular ORMs, markdown with mermaid support, and a report.
- Custom filters
- Custom context
- Shared partial usage
