# Composability

# Getting Started

## Planning Your Generators

### Setup as Node Module

A generator is a Node.js module. First, create your project folder. This folder should be started with `pg-generator`. For example, `pg-generator-name`. Name is the name of your generator. Create a `package.json` file and copy the following entries:

```json
{
  "name": "pg-generator-name",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "pg-generator for my favorite ORM models.",
  "files": ["dist"],
  "keywords": ["pg-generator"]
}
```

Add the latest version of the pg-generator using `npm install pg-generator`.

### File Tree

The default generator is called `app` and when you execute `pgen name` command or `generate("name")` function without any sub-generator, the `app` sub-generator is executed. This should be in the `app` sub-directory.

Other sub-generators have the same names as their folder names. For example; the `report` sub-generator is stored in the `report` sub-folder and executed with `pgen name:report` command or `generate("name", "report")` function.

### Add Templates

Create `templates` folder in the sub-generator folder and put your template files here. See [adding templates section](/nav.03.creating-generators/02.adding-templates).

### Extend Base Generator

In the generator's index.js file, you would extend the base generator. Just provide a `render()` method. The template file's path and context object is passed to the render method, and you should return rendered content. Returned content will be written to disk. You can use any templating engine. Below we use nunjucks.

```ts
import { PgGenerator } from "pg-generator`;
import nunjucks from "../utils/nunjucks";

export default class App extends PgGenerator {
  async render(templatePath: string, context: Context): Promise<string> {
    return nunjucks.render(templatePath, context);
  }
}
```

See [generator in depth section](/nav.03.creating-generators/02.generator-in-depth).
